a suitable boy is a
massive yet intimate saga
of four interwoven families across
northern india
in the year 1951 four years after
indian independence from the british at
the core of the story
lies a very simple ordinary family
a widowed mother trying to find the
suitable boy for her daughter
it's essentially about the journey of
india
coming into its own along with a
personal journey of
of these characters namely lata and
paralleli man
he has a very rocky journey through the
show
it's an extraordinary tale of
love and friendship
at its heart a suitable boy is
about lata a young woman in her early
twenties
who is the unmarried girl
in a in a family ma
you mustn't cry on savita's wedding day
a story
on one level is the journey of lata
finding herself finding her own voice
finding love and being being loved
what are you doing and her mother share
a very love-hate relationship where
they'll push each other towards the edge
come inside this minute you have to get
dressed for your sister's wedding
coming ma it's about finding the right
boy
for this young girl the right partner
for this
young girl who is coming of age at a
time when there is a lot of turbulence
in her personal life and also in the
country surrounding her
lata and her mother's ideas of marriage
and love are very different groupa feels
that
lata will do well in life once she's
married
you too will marry a boy i choose
but lata has her own ideas about love
and marriage
so lata falls in love with a very
unsuitable boy according to her mother
that is kabhi
zurani who is a muslim in that period
just after partition
for hindu to be involved with the muslim
or vice versa
was just too loaded kabir is
this extremely passionate guy how about
a coffee
tata's passion is what takes her there
and she's never felt that before it's
about whether they
end up together whether he is the
suitable boy because
there are some other boys who are
suitable as well
tell me why haven't we met before then
we go on to amit who
much like lata shares a world of
literature and books
i've never seen amit like this with a
girl before he's oxford educated he's a
lawyer
he comes back to india and he decides to
write poetry
he meets lata who comes from a small
town brahmpur
he loves being with her so as the series
goes on
he falls more and more in love with her
then we come on to haresh who according
to lata is the most unsuitable of all
he is uh by profession a cobbler
initially there is no relationship an
age difference also the time period that
we are talking about
it's very hesitant she finds herself and
him
uh both sort of like aligning with each
other
there is something which is grounding
them something which is telling them
that that this this could be right
the three possible suitors each of them
is different the question is how does
she make up her
own mind or is her mind made up for her
and to what extent has she grown up
during the course of the television
series
the other strand of love in this is that
of a young
westero his name is maan he's
a very passionate young man somebody who
is functioning on his own rhythm he
doesn't care much for convention
his father's not very um he thinks he's
very like unbecoming of his
younger son that he doesn't follow um
the rules and is not very disciplined
there's no denying that he loves his son
i was hoping you'd be a madman able to
stand on your own two feet there have
been one or two unforeseen expenses
a very large part of man's journey is
about him falling in love with saeda
she inhabits a very different world
than the world of the other characters
she's a courtesan
musician singer
she has a world of our own that really
throws everything and every relationship
out of balance in his life
for me it's a very interesting character
study because he sees a lot of merit and
like
you know enjoying life to the fullest
[Music]
what interests me besides the affairs of
the human heart
is the interweaving of the personal
story of lata
and her family with the political story
of our country
finding its own voice i
would like the audiences to be
thrilled and moved and
also to learn something about
what india has gone through in the last
50 60 70 years
you